README.rst, before:

Face Morpher
============

| Warp, average and morph human faces!
| Scripts will automatically detect frontal faces and skip images if
  none is detected.

Built with Python, OpenCV, Numpy, Scipy, Stasm.

| Supported on Python 2.7, Python 3.6+ and OpenCV >= 3 (tested with OpenCV 3.4.1)
| Tested on macOS High Sierra and 64bit Linux (dockerized).

Requirements
--------------
-  Install `OpenCV`_: `Mac installation steps`_
-  Note: OpenCV must be installed either from `Homebrew`_ or `source`_ as stasm requires the library files.
-  ``pip install -r requirements.txt``

Either:

-  `Use as local command-line utility`_
-  `Use as pip library`_
-  `Try out in a docker container`_

.. _`Use as local command-line utility`:

Use as local command-line utility
---------------------------------
::

    $ git clone https://github.com/alyssaq/face_morpher

Morphing Faces
--------------

Morph from a source to destination image:

::

    python facemorpher/morpher.py --src=<src_imgpath> --dest=<dest_imgpath> --plot

Morph through a series of images in a folder:

::

    python facemorpher/morpher.py --images=<folder> --out_video=out.avi

All options listed in ``morpher.py`` (pasted below):

::

    Morph from source to destination face or
    Morph through all images in a folder

    Usage:
      morpher.py (--src=<src_path> --dest=<dest_path> | --images=<folder>)
                [--width=<width>] [--height=<height>]
                [--num=<num_frames>] [--fps=<frames_per_second>]
                [--out_frames=<folder>] [--out_video=<filename>]
                [--alpha] [--plot]

    Options:
      -h, --help              Show this screen.
      --src=<src_imgpath>     Filepath to source image (.jpg, .jpeg, .png)
      --dest=<dest_path>      Filepath to destination image (.jpg, .jpeg, .png)
      --images=<folder>       Folderpath to images
      --width=<width>         Custom width of the images/video [default: 500]
      --height=<height>       Custom height of the images/video [default: 600]
      --num=<num_frames>      Number of morph frames [default: 20]
      --fps=<fps>             Number frames per second for the video [default: 10]
      --out_frames=<folder>   Folder path to save all image frames
      --out_video=<filename>  Filename to save a video
      --alpha                 Flag to save transparent background [default: False]
      --plot                  Flag to plot images [default: False]
      --version               Show version.

Averaging Faces
---------------

Average faces from all images in a folder:

::

    python facemorpher/averager.py --images=<images_folder> --out=average.png

All options listed in ``averager.py`` (pasted below):

::

    Face averager

    Usage:
      averager.py --images=<images_folder> [--blur] [--alpha] [--plot]
                [--width=<width>] [--height=<height>] [--out=<filename>]
                [--destimg=<filename>]

    Options:
      -h, --help             Show this screen.
      --images=<folder>      Folder to images (.jpg, .jpeg, .png)
      --blur                 Flag to blur edges of image [default: False]
      --alpha                Flag to save with transparent background [default: False]
      --width=<width>        Custom width of the images/video [default: 500]
      --height=<height>      Custom height of the images/video [default: 600]
      --out=<filename>       Filename to save the average face [default: result.png]
      --destimg=<filename>   Destination face image to overlay average face
      --plot                 Flag to display the average face [default: False]
      --version              Show version.

Steps (facemorpher folder)
--------------------------

1. Locator
^^^^^^^^^^

-  Locates face points (using `stasm`_)
-  For a different locator, return an array of (x, y) control face
   points

2. Aligner
^^^^^^^^^^

-  Align faces by resizing, centering and cropping to given size

3. Warper
^^^^^^^^^

-  Given 2 images and its face points, warp one image to the other
-  Triangulates face points
-  Affine transforms each triangle with bilinear interpolation

4a. Morpher
^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Morph between 2 or more images

4b. Averager
^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Average faces from 2 or more images

Blender
^^^^^^^

Optional blending of warped image:

-  Weighted average
-  Alpha feathering
-  Poisson blend

Examples - `Being John Malkovich`_
----------------------------------

Create a morphing video between the 2 images:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

| ``> python facemorpher/morpher.py --src=alyssa.jpg --dest=john_malkovich.jpg``
| ``--out_video=out.avi``

(out.avi played and recorded as gif)

.. figure:: https://raw.github.com/alyssaq/face_morpher/master/examples/being_john_malvokich.gif
   :alt: gif

Save the frames to a folder:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

| ``> python facemorpher/morpher.py --src=alyssa.jpg --dest=john_malkovich.jpg``
| ``--out_frames=out_folder --num=30``

Plot the frames:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

| ``> python facemorpher/morpher.py --src=alyssa.jpg --dest=john_malkovich.jpg``
| ``--num=12 --plot``

.. figure:: https://raw.github.com/alyssaq/face_morpher/master/examples/plot.png
   :alt: plot

Average all face images in a folder:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

85 images used

| ``> python facemorpher/averager.py --images=images --blur --alpha``
| ``--width=220 --height=250``

.. figure:: https://raw.github.com/alyssaq/face_morpher/master/examples/average_faces.png
   :alt: average\_faces

.. _`Use as pip library`:

Use as pip library
---------------------------------
::

    $ pip install facemorpher

Examples
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Additional options are exactly the same as the command line

::

    import facemorpher

    # Get a list of image paths in a folder
    imgpaths = facemorpher.list_imgpaths('imagefolder')

    # To morph, supply an array of face images:
    facemorpher.morpher(imgpaths, plot=True)

    # To average, supply an array of face images:
    facemorpher.averager(['image1.png', 'image2.png'], plot=True)


Once pip installed, 2 binaries are also available as a command line utility:

::

    $ facemorpher --src=<src_imgpath> --dest=<dest_imgpath> --plot
    $ faceaverager --images=<images_folder> --plot

Try out in a docker container
---------------------------------
Mount local folder to `/images` in docker container, run it and enter a bash session.
--rm removes the container when you close it.
::

    $ docker run -v  /Users/alyssa/Desktop/images:/images --name py3 --rm -it jjanzic/docker-python3-opencv bash

Once you're in the container, install ``facemorpher`` and try the examples listed above
::

    root@0dad0912ebbe:/# pip install facemorpher
    root@0dad0912ebbe:/# facemorpher --src=<img1> --dest=<img2> --plot

Details
------------
-  Face points are detected with stasm. This library relies on the `python wrapper around stasm`_.

Documentation
-------------

http://alyssaq.github.io/face_morpher

Build & publish Docs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

    ./scripts/publish_ghpages.sh

License
-------
`MIT`_

.. _Being John Malkovich: http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/being_john_malkovich
.. _Mac installation steps: https://gist.github.com/alyssaq/f60393545173379e0f3f#file-4-opencv3-with-python3-md
.. _MIT: http://alyssaq.github.io/mit-license
.. _OpenCV: http://opencv.org
.. _Homebrew: https://brew.sh
.. _source: https://github.com/opencv/opencv
.. _python wrapper around stasm: https://github.com/alyssaq/stasm
.. _stasm: http://www.milbo.users.sonic.net/stasm

Commit message:

average and keep background of destination and source images (#44)

README.rst, after:

Face Morpher
============

| Warp, average and morph human faces!
| Scripts will automatically detect frontal faces and skip images if
  none is detected.

Built with Python, OpenCV, Numpy, Scipy, Stasm.

| Supported on Python 2.7, Python 3.6+ and OpenCV >= 3 (tested with OpenCV 3.4.1)
| Tested on macOS High Sierra and 64bit Linux (dockerized).

Requirements
--------------
-  Install `OpenCV`_: `Mac installation steps`_
-  Note: OpenCV must be installed either from `Homebrew`_ or `source`_ as stasm requires the library files.
-  ``pip install -r requirements.txt``

Either:

-  `Use as local command-line utility`_
-  `Use as pip library`_
-  `Try out in a docker container`_

.. _`Use as local command-line utility`:

Use as local command-line utility
---------------------------------
::

    $ git clone https://github.com/alyssaq/face_morpher

Morphing Faces
--------------

Morph from a source to destination image:

::

    python facemorpher/morpher.py --src=<src_imgpath> --dest=<dest_imgpath> --plot

Morph through a series of images in a folder:

::

    python facemorpher/morpher.py --images=<folder> --out_video=out.avi

All options listed in ``morpher.py`` (pasted below):

::

    Morph from source to destination face or
    Morph through all images in a folder

    Usage:
      morpher.py (--src=<src_path> --dest=<dest_path> | --images=<folder>)
                [--width=<width>] [--height=<height>]
                [--num=<num_frames>] [--fps=<frames_per_second>]
                [--out_frames=<folder>] [--out_video=<filename>]
                [--alpha] [--plot] [--keep_bg]

    Options:
      -h, --help              Show this screen.
      --src=<src_imgpath>     Filepath to source image (.jpg, .jpeg, .png)
      --dest=<dest_path>      Filepath to destination image (.jpg, .jpeg, .png)
      --images=<folder>       Folderpath to images
      --width=<width>         Custom width of the images/video [default: 500]
      --height=<height>       Custom height of the images/video [default: 600]
      --num=<num_frames>      Number of morph frames [default: 20]
      --fps=<fps>             Number frames per second for the video [default: 10]
      --out_frames=<folder>   Folder path to save all image frames
      --out_video=<filename>  Filename to save a video
      --alpha                 Flag to save transparent background [default: False]
      --keep_bg               Flag to keep and average background of destination and source images [default: False]
      --plot                  Flag to plot images [default: False]
      --version               Show version.

Averaging Faces
---------------

Average faces from all images in a folder:

::

    python facemorpher/averager.py --images=<images_folder> --out=average.png

All options listed in ``averager.py`` (pasted below):

::

    Face averager

    Usage:
      averager.py --images=<images_folder> [--blur] [--alpha] [--plot]
                [--width=<width>] [--height=<height>] [--out=<filename>]
                [--destimg=<filename>]

    Options:
      -h, --help             Show this screen.
      --images=<folder>      Folder to images (.jpg, .jpeg, .png)
      --blur                 Flag to blur edges of image [default: False]
      --alpha                Flag to save with transparent background [default: False]
      --width=<width>        Custom width of the images/video [default: 500]
      --height=<height>      Custom height of the images/video [default: 600]
      --out=<filename>       Filename to save the average face [default: result.png]
      --destimg=<filename>   Destination face image to overlay average face
      --plot                 Flag to display the average face [default: False]
      --version              Show version.

Steps (facemorpher folder)
--------------------------

1. Locator
^^^^^^^^^^

-  Locates face points (using `stasm`_)
-  For a different locator, return an array of (x, y) control face
   points

2. Aligner
^^^^^^^^^^

-  Align faces by resizing, centering and cropping to given size

3. Warper
^^^^^^^^^

-  Given 2 images and its face points, warp one image to the other
-  Triangulates face points
-  Affine transforms each triangle with bilinear interpolation

4a. Morpher
^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Morph between 2 or more images

4b. Averager
^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Average faces from 2 or more images

Blender
^^^^^^^

Optional blending of warped image:

-  Weighted average
-  Alpha feathering
-  Poisson blend

Examples - `Being John Malkovich`_
----------------------------------

Create a morphing video between the 2 images:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

| ``> python facemorpher/morpher.py --src=alyssa.jpg --dest=john_malkovich.jpg``
| ``--out_video=out.avi``

(out.avi played and recorded as gif)

.. figure:: https://raw.github.com/alyssaq/face_morpher/master/examples/being_john_malvokich.gif
   :alt: gif

Save the frames to a folder:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

| ``> python facemorpher/morpher.py --src=alyssa.jpg --dest=john_malkovich.jpg``
| ``--out_frames=out_folder --num=30``

Plot the frames:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

| ``> python facemorpher/morpher.py --src=alyssa.jpg --dest=john_malkovich.jpg``
| ``--num=12 --plot``

.. figure:: https://raw.github.com/alyssaq/face_morpher/master/examples/plot.png
   :alt: plot

Average all face images in a folder:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

85 images used

| ``> python facemorpher/averager.py --images=images --blur --alpha``
| ``--width=220 --height=250``

.. figure:: https://raw.github.com/alyssaq/face_morpher/master/examples/average_faces.png
   :alt: average\_faces

.. _`Use as pip library`:

Use as pip library
---------------------------------
::

    $ pip install facemorpher

Examples
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Additional options are exactly the same as the command line

::

    import facemorpher

    # Get a list of image paths in a folder
    imgpaths = facemorpher.list_imgpaths('imagefolder')

    # To morph, supply an array of face images:
    facemorpher.morpher(imgpaths, plot=True)

    # To average, supply an array of face images:
    facemorpher.averager(['image1.png', 'image2.png'], plot=True)


Once pip installed, 2 binaries are also available as a command line utility:

::

    $ facemorpher --src=<src_imgpath> --dest=<dest_imgpath> --plot
    $ faceaverager --images=<images_folder> --plot

Try out in a docker container
---------------------------------
Mount local folder to `/images` in docker container, run it and enter a bash session.
--rm removes the container when you close it.
::

    $ docker run -v  /Users/alyssa/Desktop/images:/images --name py3 --rm -it jjanzic/docker-python3-opencv bash

Once you're in the container, install ``facemorpher`` and try the examples listed above
::

    root@0dad0912ebbe:/# pip install facemorpher
    root@0dad0912ebbe:/# facemorpher --src=<img1> --dest=<img2> --plot

Details
------------
-  Face points are detected with stasm. This library relies on the `python wrapper around stasm`_.

Documentation
-------------

http://alyssaq.github.io/face_morpher

Build & publish Docs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

    ./scripts/publish_ghpages.sh

License
-------
`MIT`_

.. _Being John Malkovich: http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/being_john_malkovich
.. _Mac installation steps: https://gist.github.com/alyssaq/f60393545173379e0f3f#file-4-opencv3-with-python3-md
.. _MIT: http://alyssaq.github.io/mit-license
.. _OpenCV: http://opencv.org
.. _Homebrew: https://brew.sh
.. _source: https://github.com/opencv/opencv
.. _python wrapper around stasm: https://github.com/alyssaq/stasm
.. _stasm: http://www.milbo.users.sonic.net/stasm
